---
author: Akonwi Ngoh
layout: post
title: "Gate Lice"
date: 2015-04-15
backgrounds:
  - http://onemileatatime.img.boardingarea.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Al-Mourjan-Lounge-Doha-72.jpg
  - http://onemileatatime.img.boardingarea.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/Singapore-Airlines-Private-Room-48.jpg
thumb: http://content.delta.com/content/www/en_US/traveling-with-us/airports-and-aircraft/Aircraft.damAsset.20140422T1922060050400.html/content/dam/delta-www/hero/hero-b/brand-delta-aircraft-1.jpg
category: travel
---

As someone who spends a lot of time at the airport, I have a lot of opportunities to people watch. One of the most intriguing phenomena at the airport is the boarding process. Unless you're flying on Southwest Airlines, you have an assigned seat on the plane and a group with which you board. For some reason though, there are these people who start clamoring the boarding area 15 minutes before the boarding process even begins. These people are known as "gate lice" by some members of the frequent traveler community.

Gate lice are always passengers that don't fly often so they're anxious about missing the flight. I've seen people who stand in the middle of the priority lane before the process starts and they're actually in the last boarding group. It's puzzling isn't it? It's also frustrating when you need to swim through a sea of zone 5'ers to board because they don't understand their zone comes after everyone else. Once in the Seattle airport, a guy stood and blocked the entrance of the priority lane as the gate agent announced that the boarding process was going to begin. I assumed this fellow was in first class and was ready to get into his seat. Well, I watched as senior citizens, who needed assistance boarding, shimmied around him to get their tickets scanned. And then I watched all the first class passengers do the same. When my group was boarding next, there was one man in front of me and he thought the man in blocking the lane was boarding so he stood and waited about 5 seconds expecting the guy to move forward. After the man in front of me realized this guy wasn't going to move, he asked "Hey are you boarding with Sky priority right now?" and the other guy looked at him with a puzzled face and shook his head no. The guy in front of me, visibly enraged yells "Then why are you here?!" and proceeded to board. I thought it was priceless but the most amazing thing about it was that the guy blocking the lane didn't even bother to move after that incident. Wow!

On another occasion in the Philadelphia airport, there was a woman who tried to sneak into the priority boarding group while we were boarding and her friend pulled her back and said "Don't do it. She [the gate agent] is paying close attention to tickets." 10 minutes before boarding even began, some guy walked into the priority lane and stood there. The same gate agent asked him which zone he was in. I didn't hear his response but he definitely wasn't boarding early because the agent responded with "Alright, just go back." I smiled because I was happy to see the gate agent fighting the good fight and keeping the lanes clear of gate lice.

These are little things, but when you're boarding 4 different planes a week and you're "supposed" to be one of the first people on the plane, it becomes really annoying when other people unnecessarily obstruct you from getting to your seat as soon as possible
